apps/investing-board-game-v3/BIAS_SANCTUARY_IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Bias Sanctuary Implementation

## Overview
The Bias Sanctuary feature has been successfully implemented as an educational corner tile in the Investing Board Game. When players land on the "Bias Sanctuary" corner (position 17), they are presented with an interactive learning experience about cognitive biases in investing.

## Features Implemented

### 1. Animated Card Entrance ✅
- **Animation**: Card spins in with a 360° rotation using framer-motion
- **Timing**: Spring animation with stiffness: 150, damping: 15, duration: 0.8s
- **Centering**: Modal dialog centered on screen with backdrop blur
- **Styling**: Gold accent borders with glowing shadow effect

### 2. Case Study Info Card ✅
- **Demo Content**: 3 comprehensive case studies included:
  1. **Confirmation Bias Trap** - Learning to seek contradictory evidence
  2. **Anchoring on Initial Prices** - Making decisions based on current fundamentals
  3. **Recency Bias in Market Cycles** - Understanding market history and cycles
  
- **Each case study includes**:
  - Title and bias type
  - Description
  - Real-world scenario
  - 4 expandable context panels with key insights
  - 2 quiz questions with multiple choice answers

### 3. Expandable Panels (Pew Panels) ✅
- **Implementation**: Uses Radix UI Collapsible component
- **Interaction**: Click to expand/collapse individual context panels
- **Visual Feedback**: Rotating caret icon indicates state
- **Accessibility**: Proper ARIA attributes and keyboard navigation
- **Content**: 4 key insights per case study that expand to show detailed information

### 4. Interactive Quiz Component ✅
- **Question Flow**: Sequential presentation of 2 questions per case study
- **Input Validation**: 
  - Answers must be selected before proceeding
  - Immediate visual feedback on selection
  - Correct/incorrect indication with icons
- **Visual Feedback**:
  - Green border/background for correct answers
  - Red border/background for incorrect answers
  - CheckCircle icon for correct selections
  - XCircle icon for incorrect selections
- **Explanation Display**: Shows detailed explanation after each answer
- **Progress Tracking**: "Question X of Y" indicator
- **Navigation**: "Next Question" / "Finish Quiz" buttons

### 5. Reward System ✅
- **Star Rewards Based on Performance**:
  - Perfect score (2/2): 5 stars ⭐
  - Good score (1/2): 3 stars ⭐
  - Participation (0/2): 1 star ⭐
- **Toast Notification**: Success message with score and stars earned
- **Game State Update**: Stars automatically added to player's total

### 6. Smooth Transitions ✅
- **Card to Quiz**: Fade and scale transition (0.3s)
- **Quiz to Complete**: Scale animation with opacity
- **Question to Question**: Slide animation (x-axis, 0.3s)
- **Explanation Reveal**: Fade in from top with y-axis translation
- **Modal Close**: Reset state with 300ms delay

### 7. Responsive Design ✅
- **Mobile Support**: Max width 700px with responsive padding
- **Scrolling**: Max height 85vh with overflow-y-auto
- **Accessibility**:
  - Semantic HTML with proper heading hierarchy
  - ARIA attributes via Radix UI components
  - Keyboard navigation support
  - Color contrast meets WCAG AA standards (gold accent on dark navy)
  - Focus indicators on interactive elements

## Technical Implementation

### Files Modified/Created

#### New Files:
1. `/src/components/BiasSanctuaryModal.tsx` (346 lines)
   - Main modal component with state management
   - Three views: Card, Quiz, Complete
   - Framer Motion animations

#### Modified Files:
1. `/src/lib/types.ts`
   - Added `BiasQuizQuestion` interface
   - Added `BiasCaseStudy` interface

2. `/src/lib/mockData.ts`
   - Added `BIAS_CASE_STUDIES` array with 3 case studies
   - Added `getRandomBiasCaseStudy()` helper function

3. `/src/App.tsx`
   - Added `biasSanctuaryModalOpen` state
   - Added `currentCaseStudy` state
   - Added `handleBiasQuizComplete` function
   - Integrated modal in JSX
   - Updated Bias Sanctuary tile handler to show modal

### Dependencies Used
- **framer-motion**: For smooth animations
- **@radix-ui/react-dialog**: Modal dialog component
- **@radix-ui/react-collapsible**: Expandable context panels
- **@phosphor-icons/react**: Brain, CaretDown, CheckCircle, XCircle, Lightbulb icons
- All existing shadcn/ui components (Button, Card, Separator)

### Animation Specifications

#### Card Entrance Animation:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ scale: 0, rotate: 360, opacity: 0 }}
animate={{ scale: 1, rotate: 0, opacity: 1 }}
exit={{ scale: 0.8, opacity: 0 }}
transition={{
  type: 'spring',
  stiffness: 150,
  damping: 15,
  duration: 0.8,
}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Quiz Transition:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ x: 20, opacity: 0 }}
animate={{ x: 0, opacity: 1 }}
transition={{ duration: 0.3 }}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Explanation Reveal:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ opacity: 0, y: -10 }}
animate={{ opacity: 1, y: 0 }}
transition={{ duration: 0.3 }}
```
{% endraw %}

## Testing Checklist

### Functional Testing ✅
- [x] Modal opens when landing on Bias Sanctuary tile (position 17)
- [x] Card spins in with smooth animation
- [x] Random case study is selected from the 3 available
- [x] All 4 context panels can be expanded/collapsed
- [x] Quiz questions display correctly
- [x] Answer selection works and shows visual feedback
- [x] Correct/incorrect answers are validated properly
- [x] Explanations appear after answer selection
- [x] Next button disabled until answer selected
- [x] Quiz completion screen shows accurate score
- [x] Stars awarded based on performance
- [x] "Review Case Study" button returns to card view
- [x] "Continue Game" button closes modal and returns to idle phase
- [x] Modal close resets all state properly

### Browser Compatibility
The implementation uses modern web standards and should work in:
- ✅ Chrome/Edge (v90+)
- ✅ Firefox (v88+)
- ✅ Safari (v14+)
- ✅ Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

All features use well-supported APIs:
- CSS Grid & Flexbox
- CSS Custom Properties (OKLCH colors)
- ES2020+ JavaScript features
- React 19 hooks

### Responsive Design
- ✅ Desktop (1920x1080): Full layout with proper spacing
- ✅ Tablet (768px): Responsive padding and font sizes
- ✅ Mobile (375px): Stacked layout with touch-friendly targets
- ✅ Scrolling works on all viewport sizes

### Accessibility
- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ Proper heading hierarchy (h1-h4)
- ✅ ARIA labels via Radix UI
- ✅ Keyboard navigation (Tab, Enter, Escape)
- ✅ Focus indicators visible
- ✅ Color contrast ratios meet WCAG AA
- ✅ Screen reader compatible

## Build Verification ✅
```bash
npm run build
# Build succeeded with no errors
# Output: dist/assets/index-BFDS7vc4.js (512.80 kB)
```

## Game Integration
The Bias Sanctuary modal is fully integrated into the game flow:

1. Player rolls dice and lands on position 17 (Bias Sanctuary corner)
2. A random case study is selected from the pool
3. Modal opens with spinning card animation
4. Player reads the case study and expands context panels
5. Player clicks "Take the Quiz" to begin
6. Player answers 2 multiple-choice questions
7. Explanations shown after each answer
8. Final score displayed with star reward
9. Stars automatically added to player's game state
10. Player can review case study or continue game
11. Modal closes and game returns to idle phase

## Case Study Content

### 1. Confirmation Bias
- **Scenario**: Sarah ignoring negative earnings reports
- **Key Insights**: Echo chambers, proper risk assessment, devil's advocate approaches
- **Questions**: Primary danger, how to combat bias

### 2. Anchoring Bias
- **Scenario**: Mike refusing to sell at loss due to purchase price fixation
- **Key Insights**: Irrelevance of purchase price, forward-looking decisions
- **Questions**: Identify mistake, primary consideration for holding

### 3. Recency Bias
- **Scenario**: Jennifer assuming bull market will continue indefinitely
- **Key Insights**: Market cyclicality, historical patterns, "new normal" fallacy
- **Questions**: How bias manifests, best defense

## Future Enhancements (Optional)
- Add more case studies (target: 10-15)
- Implement case study selection instead of random
- Track completed case studies in game state
- Add difficulty levels (beginner, intermediate, advanced)
- Include real historical examples with charts
- Add achievement badges for completing all case studies
- Leaderboard for quiz scores
- Save quiz results to localStorage/Supabase

## Demo Data Quality
All case study content is:
- ✅ Educationally accurate
- ✅ Relevant to investing decisions
- ✅ Clear and concise
- ✅ Appropriate difficulty level
- ✅ Includes actionable insights
- ✅ Based on behavioral finance research

Commit message:

Align markdown docs with Wealth Run and Case Study

apps/investing-board-game-v3/BIAS_SANCTUARY_IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Case Study Implementation (Bias Sanctuary Modal)

## Overview
The Case Study feature has been successfully implemented as an educational learning tile in the Investing Board Game. When players land on the Case Study tile, they are presented with an interactive learning experience about cognitive biases in investing (powered by the `BiasSanctuaryModal` component).

## Features Implemented

### 1. Animated Card Entrance ✅
- **Animation**: Card spins in with a 360° rotation using framer-motion
- **Timing**: Spring animation with stiffness: 150, damping: 15, duration: 0.8s
- **Centering**: Modal dialog centered on screen with backdrop blur
- **Styling**: Gold accent borders with glowing shadow effect

### 2. Case Study Info Card ✅
- **Demo Content**: 3 comprehensive case studies included:
  1. **Confirmation Bias Trap** - Learning to seek contradictory evidence
  2. **Anchoring on Initial Prices** - Making decisions based on current fundamentals
  3. **Recency Bias in Market Cycles** - Understanding market history and cycles
  
- **Each case study includes**:
  - Title and bias type
  - Description
  - Real-world scenario
  - 4 expandable context panels with key insights
  - 2 quiz questions with multiple choice answers

### 3. Expandable Panels (Pew Panels) ✅
- **Implementation**: Uses Radix UI Collapsible component
- **Interaction**: Click to expand/collapse individual context panels
- **Visual Feedback**: Rotating caret icon indicates state
- **Accessibility**: Proper ARIA attributes and keyboard navigation
- **Content**: 4 key insights per case study that expand to show detailed information

### 4. Interactive Quiz Component ✅
- **Question Flow**: Sequential presentation of 2 questions per case study
- **Input Validation**: 
  - Answers must be selected before proceeding
  - Immediate visual feedback on selection
  - Correct/incorrect indication with icons
- **Visual Feedback**:
  - Green border/background for correct answers
  - Red border/background for incorrect answers
  - CheckCircle icon for correct selections
  - XCircle icon for incorrect selections
- **Explanation Display**: Shows detailed explanation after each answer
- **Progress Tracking**: "Question X of Y" indicator
- **Navigation**: "Next Question" / "Finish Quiz" buttons

### 5. Reward System ✅
- **Star Rewards Based on Performance**:
  - Perfect score (2/2): 5 stars ⭐
  - Good score (1/2): 3 stars ⭐
  - Participation (0/2): 1 star ⭐
- **Toast Notification**: Success message with score and stars earned
- **Game State Update**: Stars automatically added to player's total

### 6. Smooth Transitions ✅
- **Card to Quiz**: Fade and scale transition (0.3s)
- **Quiz to Complete**: Scale animation with opacity
- **Question to Question**: Slide animation (x-axis, 0.3s)
- **Explanation Reveal**: Fade in from top with y-axis translation
- **Modal Close**: Reset state with 300ms delay

### 7. Responsive Design ✅
- **Mobile Support**: Max width 700px with responsive padding
- **Scrolling**: Max height 85vh with overflow-y-auto
- **Accessibility**:
  - Semantic HTML with proper heading hierarchy
  - ARIA attributes via Radix UI components
  - Keyboard navigation support
  - Color contrast meets WCAG AA standards (gold accent on dark navy)
  - Focus indicators on interactive elements

## Technical Implementation

### Files Modified/Created

#### New Files:
1. `/src/components/BiasSanctuaryModal.tsx` (346 lines)
   - Main modal component with state management
   - Three views: Card, Quiz, Complete
   - Framer Motion animations

#### Modified Files:
1. `/src/lib/types.ts`
   - Added `BiasQuizQuestion` interface
   - Added `BiasCaseStudy` interface

2. `/src/lib/mockData.ts`
   - Added `BIAS_CASE_STUDIES` array with 3 case studies
   - Added `getRandomBiasCaseStudy()` helper function

3. `/src/App.tsx`
   - Added `biasSanctuaryModalOpen` state
   - Added `currentCaseStudy` state
   - Added `handleBiasQuizComplete` function
   - Integrated modal in JSX
   - Updated Case Study tile handler to show modal

### Dependencies Used
- **framer-motion**: For smooth animations
- **@radix-ui/react-dialog**: Modal dialog component
- **@radix-ui/react-collapsible**: Expandable context panels
- **@phosphor-icons/react**: Brain, CaretDown, CheckCircle, XCircle, Lightbulb icons
- All existing shadcn/ui components (Button, Card, Separator)

### Animation Specifications

#### Card Entrance Animation:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ scale: 0, rotate: 360, opacity: 0 }}
animate={{ scale: 1, rotate: 0, opacity: 1 }}
exit={{ scale: 0.8, opacity: 0 }}
transition={{
  type: 'spring',
  stiffness: 150,
  damping: 15,
  duration: 0.8,
}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Quiz Transition:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ x: 20, opacity: 0 }}
animate={{ x: 0, opacity: 1 }}
transition={{ duration: 0.3 }}
```
{% endraw %}

#### Explanation Reveal:
{% raw %}
```typescript
initial={{ opacity: 0, y: -10 }}
animate={{ opacity: 1, y: 0 }}
transition={{ duration: 0.3 }}
```
{% endraw %}

## Testing Checklist

### Functional Testing ✅
- [x] Modal opens when landing on the Case Study tile
- [x] Card spins in with smooth animation
- [x] Random case study is selected from the 3 available
- [x] All 4 context panels can be expanded/collapsed
- [x] Quiz questions display correctly
- [x] Answer selection works and shows visual feedback
- [x] Correct/incorrect answers are validated properly
- [x] Explanations appear after answer selection
- [x] Next button disabled until answer selected
- [x] Quiz completion screen shows accurate score
- [x] Stars awarded based on performance
- [x] "Review Case Study" button returns to card view
- [x] "Continue Game" button closes modal and returns to idle phase
- [x] Modal close resets all state properly

### Browser Compatibility
The implementation uses modern web standards and should work in:
- ✅ Chrome/Edge (v90+)
- ✅ Firefox (v88+)
- ✅ Safari (v14+)
- ✅ Mobile browsers (iOS Safari, Chrome Mobile)

All features use well-supported APIs:
- CSS Grid & Flexbox
- CSS Custom Properties (OKLCH colors)
- ES2020+ JavaScript features
- React 19 hooks

### Responsive Design
- ✅ Desktop (1920x1080): Full layout with proper spacing
- ✅ Tablet (768px): Responsive padding and font sizes
- ✅ Mobile (375px): Stacked layout with touch-friendly targets
- ✅ Scrolling works on all viewport sizes

### Accessibility
- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ Proper heading hierarchy (h1-h4)
- ✅ ARIA labels via Radix UI
- ✅ Keyboard navigation (Tab, Enter, Escape)
- ✅ Focus indicators visible
- ✅ Color contrast ratios meet WCAG AA
- ✅ Screen reader compatible

## Build Verification ✅
```bash
npm run build
# Build succeeded with no errors
# Output: dist/assets/index-BFDS7vc4.js (512.80 kB)
```

## Game Integration
The Case Study modal is fully integrated into the game flow:

1. Player rolls dice and lands on the Case Study tile
2. A random case study is selected from the pool
3. Modal opens with spinning card animation
4. Player reads the case study and expands context panels
5. Player clicks "Take the Quiz" to begin
6. Player answers 2 multiple-choice questions
7. Explanations shown after each answer
8. Final score displayed with star reward
9. Stars automatically added to player's game state
10. Player can review case study or continue game
11. Modal closes and game returns to idle phase

## Case Study Content

### 1. Confirmation Bias
- **Scenario**: Sarah ignoring negative earnings reports
- **Key Insights**: Echo chambers, proper risk assessment, devil's advocate approaches
- **Questions**: Primary danger, how to combat bias

### 2. Anchoring Bias
- **Scenario**: Mike refusing to sell at loss due to purchase price fixation
- **Key Insights**: Irrelevance of purchase price, forward-looking decisions
- **Questions**: Identify mistake, primary consideration for holding

### 3. Recency Bias
- **Scenario**: Jennifer assuming bull market will continue indefinitely
- **Key Insights**: Market cyclicality, historical patterns, "new normal" fallacy
- **Questions**: How bias manifests, best defense

## Future Enhancements (Optional)
- Add more case studies (target: 10-15)
- Implement case study selection instead of random
- Track completed case studies in game state
- Add difficulty levels (beginner, intermediate, advanced)
- Include real historical examples with charts
- Add achievement badges for completing all case studies
- Leaderboard for quiz scores
- Save quiz results to localStorage/Supabase

## Demo Data Quality
All case study content is:
- ✅ Educationally accurate
- ✅ Relevant to investing decisions
- ✅ Clear and concise
- ✅ Appropriate difficulty level
- ✅ Includes actionable insights
- ✅ Based on behavioral finance research
